README.md, before:

# NGSPSECount
A python script which keeps track of enemies killed during an PSE in PSO2:NGS. That's it.

The code has been thrown together in a couple of minutes. It is just supposed to work, it is not going to win any engineering awards. The code performance is questionable. I know.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/68307987/163701308-b19ffbb5-8407-4fb5-bc74-6bf553da597e.png)


# Why?

There has been research going on in which people look for correlations between the amount of killed enemies during a PSE and the appearance of a so called "PSE Encore". For that, people have kept track of their progress in Title Tasks such as `Huntsman of Retem Alnothe VI` (kill 60000 Enemies) at the beginning and end of an PSE, noted those numbers down and also noted if an Encore occurred. However, as more people hit the latest Tier of this Title Task, the progress stops counting.

This script is supposed to be a cheap alternative for keeping track of enemies killed during an PSE for those researchers. However, it might as well be used for practice or comparison purposes by anyone.

More information:

~~https://nitter.net/dilute_rin/status/1515107043891642369~~

~~https://nitter.net/dilute_rin/status/1515108153628983297~~

~~https://nitter.net/dilute_rin/status/1515109040984313860~~

https://nitter.net/TheuberClips/status/1515109226561286145

https://nitter.net/flowerint1034/status/1515111429355245568

Snapshots:

https://web.archive.org/web/20220417020420/https://twitter.com/dilute_rin/status/1515107043891642369

https://web.archive.org/web/20220417020643/https://twitter.com/dilute_rin/status/1515108153628983297

https://web.archive.org/web/20220417020835/https://twitter.com/dilute_rin/status/1515109040984313860

https://web.archive.org/web/20220417021041/https://twitter.com/TheuberClips/status/1515109226561286145

https://web.archive.org/web/20220417021223/https://twitter.com/flowerint1034/status/1515111429355245568

## Update

The Chance for a PSE Encore to appear is guessed at 20%. There seems to be no relationship between "Enemies Killed" and the Chance to gain a PSE Burst.

(Exception: Killing 0 PSE Enemies will reward no PSE Burst with Samplesize n=20)

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N0WPMFXLnHK76RzznlI15psfP73i46YTNteehrxOSEQ

# How?

Almost every interaction and chat message send in PSO2 is logged towards their logfiles in the `Documents/SEGA` directory. We can use this to check for the start and end of a PSE (via. an automatically send text message) as well of killed enemies as enemies in Combat Zones of PSO2 have a guaranteed Meseta Drop on kill.

# Setup?

The script requires Python 3 to run. It only uses default packages and local packages, most versions of Python 3 should do.

[Download](https://github.com/PureFallen/NGSPSECount/archive/refs/heads/main.zip) the Project, edit `main.py` with a Text Editor of your choice and change the constants at the very top to your needs. Nothing fancy like config file yet.

| Constant   | Meaning                                                                                                                                                         |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| PATH       | Path towards your PSO2NGS Logfiles                                                                                                                              |
| PLAYER_ID  | Your PlayerID Number. Prevents double triggering through other players with equal PSE Auto Chats. Can be found in your character information or in the logfile. |
| BURST_MSG  | The **exact** message send by Auto Chat-Feature when a PSE Burst occurs                                                                                         |
| CLIMAX_MSG | The **exact** message send by Auto Chat-Feature when a PSE Climax occurs                                                                                        |

Be sure that the sending of Autowords is enabled for your character.

`ESC -> System -> Options -> Sound/Chat -> Auto Chat Usage -> Set to "Use"`

Auto Chat Messages can be set at:

`ESC -> Chat -> Auto Chat Settings -> Events -> At PSE Burst Start/At PSE Climax`

# Known limitations | Issues

## Script only allows for one Auto Chat to be set per Event Type at the same time

This is mostly a simplicity decision at the moment. It would not be hard to add support for several messages to look for, but it rather hit performance of the script and seems unnecessary.

## Different Encodings for the Logfiles varying in Windows Version and Game Version

This one is just theoretical, as I stumbled over something similar when using Logfiles to create a Chat Bridge between PSO2 and Discord. It seems like that the Logfiles are encoded differently for different versions of Windows and PSO2 (Steam, XBox, ...).

As I not own to have 3+ different Windows Versions with all 4 variants of PSO2:NGS on each, this will probably not get fixed until someone brings awareness to this in an Issue, Pull Request or by messaging me privately.

Commit message:

Add detection of the newest log folder
Using C types, determine the location of the Users Documents Folder, check for Game Folders and the most recent log_ngs folder.
User of this script are no longer required to enter the PATH constant.

README.md, after:

# NGSPSECount
A python script which keeps track of enemies killed during an PSE in PSO2:NGS. That's it.

The code has been thrown together in a couple of minutes. It is just supposed to work, it is not going to win any engineering awards. The code performance is questionable. I know.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/68307987/163701308-b19ffbb5-8407-4fb5-bc74-6bf553da597e.png)


# Why?

There has been research going on in which people look for correlations between the amount of killed enemies during a PSE and the appearance of a so called "PSE Encore". For that, people have kept track of their progress in Title Tasks such as `Huntsman of Retem Alnothe VI` (kill 60000 Enemies) at the beginning and end of an PSE, noted those numbers down and also noted if an Encore occurred. However, as more people hit the latest Tier of this Title Task, the progress stops counting.

This script is supposed to be a cheap alternative for keeping track of enemies killed during an PSE for those researchers. However, it might as well be used for practice or comparison purposes by anyone.

More information:

~~https://nitter.net/dilute_rin/status/1515107043891642369~~

~~https://nitter.net/dilute_rin/status/1515108153628983297~~

~~https://nitter.net/dilute_rin/status/1515109040984313860~~

https://nitter.net/TheuberClips/status/1515109226561286145

https://nitter.net/flowerint1034/status/1515111429355245568

Snapshots:

https://web.archive.org/web/20220417020420/https://twitter.com/dilute_rin/status/1515107043891642369

https://web.archive.org/web/20220417020643/https://twitter.com/dilute_rin/status/1515108153628983297

https://web.archive.org/web/20220417020835/https://twitter.com/dilute_rin/status/1515109040984313860

https://web.archive.org/web/20220417021041/https://twitter.com/TheuberClips/status/1515109226561286145

https://web.archive.org/web/20220417021223/https://twitter.com/flowerint1034/status/1515111429355245568

## Update

The Chance for a PSE Encore to appear is guessed at 20%. There seems to be no relationship between "Enemies Killed" and the Chance to gain a PSE Burst.

(Exception: Killing 0 PSE Enemies will reward no PSE Burst with Samplesize n=20)

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N0WPMFXLnHK76RzznlI15psfP73i46YTNteehrxOSEQ

# How?

Almost every interaction and chat message send in PSO2 is logged towards their logfiles in the `Documents/SEGA` directory. We can use this to check for the start and end of a PSE (via. an automatically send text message) as well of killed enemies as enemies in Combat Zones of PSO2 have a guaranteed Meseta Drop on kill.

# Setup?

The script requires Python 3 to run. It only uses default packages and local packages, most versions of Python 3 should do.

[Download](https://github.com/PureFallen/NGSPSECount/archive/refs/heads/main.zip) the Project, edit `main.py` with a Text Editor of your choice and change the constants at the very top to your needs. Nothing fancy like config file yet.

| Constant   | Meaning                                                                                                                                                         |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| PLAYER_ID  | Your PlayerID Number. Prevents double triggering through other players with equal PSE Auto Chats. Can be found in your character information or in the logfile. |
| BURST_MSG  | The **exact** message send by Auto Chat-Feature when a PSE Burst occurs                                                                                         |
| CLIMAX_MSG | The **exact** message send by Auto Chat-Feature when a PSE Climax occurs                                                                                        |

Be sure that the sending of Autowords is enabled for your character.

`ESC -> System -> Options -> Sound/Chat -> Auto Chat Usage -> Set to "Use"`

Auto Chat Messages can be set at:

`ESC -> Chat -> Auto Chat Settings -> Events -> At PSE Burst Start/At PSE Climax`

Once all information has been set, run the script by executing `run.cmd`.

# Known limitations | Issues

## Script only allows for one Auto Chat to be set per Event Type at the same time

This is mostly a simplicity decision at the moment. It would not be hard to add support for several messages to look for, but it rather hit performance of the script and seems unnecessary.

## Different Encodings for the Logfiles varying in Windows Version and Game Version

This one is just theoretical, as I stumbled over something similar when using Logfiles to create a Chat Bridge between PSO2 and Discord. It seems like that the Logfiles are encoded differently for different versions of Windows and PSO2 (Steam, XBox, ...).

As I not own to have 3+ different Windows Versions with all 4 variants of PSO2:NGS on each, this will probably not get fixed until someone brings awareness to this in an Issue, Pull Request or by messaging me privately.
